ARTISTIC GYMNASTICS 

 

The artistic gymnastics competition at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games consists of men's and women's competitions.

Men compete on six apparatus: floor exercise, pommel horse, rings, vault, parallel bars and horizontal bar. Women compete on four apparatus: vault, uneven bars, balance beam and floor exercise. 

There are four competition phases in artistic gymnastics: qualifications, team final, all-around final, and apparatus finals.

Qualifications

All gymnasts compete as part of a team and/or as individuals and the results of this phase are used to qualify gymnasts for the team, all-around and the apparatus finals. No scores are carried over from the qualifications to the finals. Team results are based on the three best gymnast scores on each apparatus.

Team final

The top eight teams from qualifications proceed to the team final. The teams compete again on all apparatus and the teams with the highest total scores are awarded the medals.

All-around final

The top 24 gymnasts from qualifications (maximum two per NOC) proceed to the all-around final. The gymnasts perform again on all apparatus and those with the highest scores are awarded the medals in the all-around. The all-around title is considered to be the premium achievement in gymnastics.

Apparatus finals

The eight gymnasts who placed highest on each apparatus in qualifications (maximum two per NOC) proceed to the apparatus finals. The gymnasts perform again on each apparatus and those with the highest scores are awarded the individual medals for each apparatus.
TIEBREAKING RULES

-  Qualification for all-around final

-  All-around final

In case of a tie for any place, the ranking will be determined by the following criteria:

1.     The gymnast with the highest sum of the final apparatus scores will prevail (i.e. add the total of the five, four, three, two, one of the highest final apparatus scores for men, or the total of the three, two, one of the highest final apparatus scores for women).

2.     The gymnast with the highest total E-score (execution) by adding all apparatus will prevail.

3.     The gymnast with the highest total D-score (difficulty) by adding all apparatus will prevail.

4.     If they remain tied, the gymnasts will share the same classification.

-  Qualification for apparatus finals (except vault)

-  Apparatus finals (except vault)

If a tie occurs, ties will be broken by the following criteria:

1.     The gymnast with the highest E-score (execution) will prevail.

2.     The gymnast with the highest D-score (difficulty) will prevail.

3.     If they remain tied, the gymnasts will share the same classification.

-  Qualification for vault final

-  Vault final

If a tie occurs, ties will be broken by the following criteria:

1.     The gymnast with the highest score of the two vaults before the average for the final score will prevail.

2.     The gymnast with the highest E-score (execution) of either vault will prevail.

3.     The gymnast with the highest D-score (difficulty) of either vault will prevail.

4.     If they remain tied, the gymnasts will share the same classification.

-  Qualification for team final

-  Team final

In case of a tie at any place, ties will be broken by the following criteria:

1.     The team with the highest sum of the team apparatus counting scores obtained will prevail (i.e. the total of five, four, three, two, one highest apparatus team scores for men and the total of three, two, one highest apparatus team scores for women).

2.     If they remain tied, the teams will share the same classification.

If ties for the last qualification place(s) for a final cannot be broken by the above criteria, all tied gymnasts/teams will progress to the final.
